.TH "AR68" 1
.SH NAME
ar68 - archive maintainer
.SH USAGE
ar68 flags [pos] archive file1 file2 ...
.SH FUNCTION
\&'ar68' collects individual files into a single archive,
or library file.
It is primarily used to maintain libraries of object files
for use by the loader,
although it can be used with any type of file.
.sp 1
The flags argument determines the function that 'ar68' performs.
One character from the set {dprtx} must be specified;
these are the function select flags.
The function select flags specify the following functions:
.sp 2
.in +8
.ti -8
d\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Delete the specified files from the archive.
.sp
.ti -8
p\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Print the specified files.
If the files are not printable,
e.g. object files, havoc results.
.sp
.ti -8
r\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Replace the specified files.
If an optional position flag from the set
{abi} is not specified new files are placed at the end of the archive.
.sp
.ti -8
t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Print a table of contents of the archive.
If files are specified only the specified files are listed.
.sp
.ti -8
x\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Extract the specified files from the archive,
creating loose files in the current directory.
If no files are specified, all of the files in the archive are extracted.
Note that 'x' does not alter the archive.
The 'd' flag must be used to delete files from an archive.
.sp 2
.in -8
The files must be specified in the same order as they appear in the
archive file,
otherwise some of the files may not be found.
For example, if an archive "t.a" consists of the files file1, file2
and file3 in that order,
the command "ar t t.a file2 file1" will cause file2 to be listed,
but not file1.
Instead, the message "file1 not in archive" will be printed.
This is because 'ar68' only searches the archive once.
Files must be specified in the order they appear in the archive.
.sp 2
Characters from the set {abiv} may be included in the flags argument.
These characters have the following function:
.in +8
.sp 2
.ti -8
a\ \ \ \ \ \ \ When used with the 'r' flag, 'a' specifies that new files
are to be inserted after the file "pos" in the archive.
Note that the "pos" argument must be specified if and only if
one of the characters {abi} appear in the flags argument.
.sp
.ti -8
b\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 'b' has the same function as 'a', except that new files are
inserted before the file "pos" in the archive.
.sp
.ti -8
i\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 'i' has exactly the same meaning as 'b', the two characters
can be used interchangeably (but only one must appear).
.sp
.ti -8
v\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 'v' (verbose) causes a file by file description of the
operation of 'ar68' to be printed.
Files are either copied (c),
replaced (r), added (a), deleted (d) or extracted (x) from an archive.
When used with the 't' flag, 'v' causes a long listing to be printed.
Verbose has no effect on the print function.
.in -8
.SH FILES
_~ar????? (process id in octal)  - temporary file
.SH SEE ALSO
lo68 (cmnd), ar68 (files)
.SH BUGS
When using any of the 'a' 'b', or 'i' flags to position the files,
if any of the files in the namelist already exist in the archive,
you must delete them with the delete option first. Otherwise, 'ar68'
will make another copy of them.
